All right.
So we're ready to kind of dive
in to the cap stone project.
But, before you just get to building
everything you need to kind of think
about what you're going to do.
Now, lets lets take a work we're
going to do and talk about a little bit.
We are going to build
a self sustainable Mobile,
hopefully mobile surveillance system.
[COUGH] Right?
And also dragon board 410 C workstation.
So that being said, we're going to
have plenty of electrical components.
Not only the dragon board 410 c, but
we're going to need to power sensors,
we're going to need a monitor.
We're going to need possibly,
maybe some other, if we're out and about
and we don't have access to any light,
maybe it's night time, maybe we
want to power some light, so yeah,
obviously the possibilities are endless,
right?
So you can take anything you want and plug
it into the system, we're hoping at least.
[COUGH] So, what do we need for this?
Now, first we wanted to kind of
walk you through our process.
So wanted to research [COUGH] some
components, the system components,
but we want to research the system
components around the needs of the system.
So, if we're pulling the DragonBoard,
if we're taking the DragonBoard and
the DragonBoard is obviously
going to be a load of the system.
Well, the power supply for the DragonBoard
and the power adaptor is 24 watts.
You have 2 amps 12 volts, right?
Ohm's law, P = IV, the current times
the voltage, you get the power 24 watts.
It all make sense.
So we're going to need 24 watts.
And you can kind of go down
the list of items that you
want to power with this system.
And basically, kind of mold
the components that you choose and
research around what you want
the load of the system to be.
Now since this is, of course,
a workstation for the DragonBoard,
we are going to need to power that,
we're going to need a power monitor, so
you're going to have to choose
a monitor that's within the specs.
And we will be providing you with
a list of components that we used and
proved to work with our system.
So, we will be building
a mobile station for you.
And we will provide you with
the list of components, you can,
[COUGH] work around that list.
You can choose to use the identical
components if you'd like, or
you can make it more robust, bigger.
Add more batteries, add more solar panels,
bigger charge controller, bigger inverter,
whatever you want, all right.
So, once you've decided how big the load's
going to be for your system, and
you've done research on the right
components, well then you can, you know
research may be you want to not use just
AC power but you want to use DC power.
Now, we will go a little bit more in
depth in point two about this but
essentially you know at least for the most
prior we have what I've seen is AC power.
We will talk about a little bit more
the difference between AC and DC power.
Suffice to say,
AC power has a lot higher voltage.
And for the most parts, our DC power is
going to be a lower voltage that we're
dealing with in this case.
So, we will be using a 12 volt battery.
And we will be using an inverter
to step the 12 volts up
to 110 volts and
provide AC current [COUGH] AC power.
So, if you wanted to use, for instance,
only DC, you don't need an inverter.
And you could just power it
straight from the 12 volt battery.
Most electronics already have
regulators inside their adaptors so,
if you wanted to plug in a, for
instance a cell phone or
something that requires a five volts in
most cases they have the little regulator
in the device that steps it down for you.
There are lots of other components
you can buy online that
will provide step-downs and regulates
the voltage to whatever you'd like.
If you choose to go DC, we will also talk
about about that in capstone part two.
Giving you some options on some DC
components that you might want to add to
your systems.
Overall, it saves you a little
bit of power but in the long run,
it's not so substantial.
So yeah,
now you've chosen your components.
You've decided if you want it AC DC.
You're going to purchase your components.
So obviously,
there's going to be a little bit of a gap
there while you order your components.
Figure out what you want.
Get it all set up.
Everything shows up to your house and
you're ready to go.
Make sure you read all
your instruction manuals.
Get in tune with your components.
Make sure, double check your math and
then you start to build your system.
From there, we'll set up our surveillance,
we'll set up our DragonBoard 410 C
on the system, and we'll make
sure that it can run and charge.
And we'll make sure that it's portable.
And we'll start having fun with it.
All right, so, I just wanted to
kind of show you a little diagram
of a mock system that
we came up with here.
So, for those of you who aren't familiar
with all the components that may go
into a solar powered,
self sustainable solar powered system,
[COUGH] you can kind of see
up here on the screen, and
I'm going to walk you through it real
quick, what everything is about.
So if we start on the left side,
you can see it's there, it says Panels.
So that's where your Panels start.
That's where the original power
from the Sun is collected.
The Panels led out DC power.
So [COUGH] from the Panels,
you're already collecting energy and you
want to sent it to your batteries, right.
But the problem is, is that with
batteries you can't overcharge them,
you can't undercharge them,
you have to have them properly regulated.
And so in order to do that, we have a
great device called the charge controller.
So in between the solar panels and
the batteries is the charge controller.
Now again we're going to
be providing you lists for
all the components that we
chose to use for our system.
You can shop around and
find similar specifications or components
with similar specifications more or less.
However you'd like to pair and
set your system up.
So again, we're going from the solar
panels to the charge controller,
and then from the charge
controller to the batteries.
That is going to basically say, the charge
controller says, hey our batteries,
they're already charged enough.
So let's cut off the solar panels for now.
We don't want to overcharge our batteries.
Or it'll It will get it input from
the batteries and it will say, hey,
these batteries are running low, quick, we
need to start charging up the batteries.
In which case it will open it up and
start charging the batteries.
So, hopefully,
I would recommend pausing this and
kind of following along with me kind of
tracing with your finger if you have to.
But right now we are at
the charge controller and
as you can see there is still
DC flowing in to the batteries.
Now, if we just hooked up for
instance a plus and a minus
to the batteries we would hopefully
get somewhere right above 12 volts.
Here I have four batteries in series,
this just kind of shows that hey you're
going to have as many batteries as you
want as long as the specs
match your other devices.
So you charge until your inverter,
everything has to be kind of match or
within the range of those devices.
For our case, we're only end up using
one batteries, I mean one battery.
So, we'll have right around 12 volts.
So hopefully a little more than
12 volts when we measure that.
If we had the device that requires
12 volts, then we could essentially
hook it up to the batteries and
it would just provide us the DC.
We would be able to charge our item or
run it off from there.
So for example,
the dragon word four ten C, right?
12 volts, one amp.
We would just be able to run a socket
from the batteries, plug it in, and
the adapter will take
care of everything else.
It'll make sure that it's
only getting 12 volts.
It'll make sure that
the amperage is right.
And [COUGH] we will be able to power the
DragonBoard 410c right from the batteries.
However, we don't want to limit our
self to just the DragonBoard 410c.
We want to be able to power anything.
Maybe you're hot and you want to fan.
Again, like I said, you want lights.
So, that's when we need the inverter.
The inverter, the opposite of a converter,
steps up your voltage.
So, what we do is you can
now follow again the screen.
We've gone from the panels
to the charge controller,
which is kind of like the brain that
decides how to charge the batteries.
And then from the DC that the batteries
provide, we run it through the inverter.
It converts between AC and
steps up [COUGH] the voltage.
So, the inverter that we will be using,
we'll talk about later we where
going to pulling 350 watts.
So what you can kind of imagine is,
[COUGH] if we have 350 watts
are capable of 350 watts
the DragonBoard uses 24 watts.
You could be charging a phone.
A phone is usually one amp five volts,
so, five watts.
So now you've got 29 watts.
Add a fan, add a light bulb I don't know,
energy saving 15 watt light bulbs.
So now you're pulling 15 more watts.
Right, so you're going to start adding
these things up and you can kind of say,
okay well my inverter's definitely high
enough to power everything that I need.
But what you would do from
there is you can step up your
inverter to get you more watts etc.
So, this is kind of what we use
to walk through our process.
And we went from the panels.
Well I should say, we went from
our load what we wanted to power.
And then we reach to each
individual component and
made sure that it was capable
of powering what we wanted.
Again, we're going to go more in depth on
this, I just wanted to show you a little
bit of the process and how we thought
our way through creating this system.
[COUGH] So stick around for the next
video, where will talk more specific
about the components that we are going to
be using for our particular project.
And later on, we will actually
go through a fun example of
something we built in the past here
at UCSD and hopefully you enjoy it.
Wait around for part two and
we'll get more involved and
actually build something for you.